Add paper walkthroughs to examples (#3020)
rerun-io/rerun: examples/python/differentiable_blocks_world/README.md

---
title: "Differentiable Blocks World: Qualitative 3D Decomposition by Rendering Primitives"
python: https://github.com/rerun-io/differentiable-blocksworld
tags: [3D, mesh, pinhole-camera]
thumbnail: https://static.rerun.io/fd44aa668cdebc6a4c14ff038e28f48cfb83c5ee_dbw_480w.png
---

> Finding a textured mesh decomposition from a collection of posed images is a very challenging optimization problem. “Differentiable Block Worlds” by @t_monnier et al. shows impressive results using differentiable rendering. I visualized how this optimization works using @rerundotio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finding a textured mesh decomposition from a collection of posed images is a very challenging optimization problem. “Differentiable Block Worlds” by @t_monnier et al. shows impressive results using differentiable rendering. I visualized how this optimization works using the Rerun SDK.
```

@rerundotio -> Rerun SDK here and elsewhere

  <source media="(max-width: 1024px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/89bab0c74b2bbff84a606cc3a400f208e1aaadeb_dbw-overview_1024w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1200px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/7c8bec373d0a6c71ea05ffa696acb981137ca579_dbw-overview_1200w.png">
  <img src="https://static.rerun.io/a8fea9769b734b2474a1e743259b3e4e68203c0f_dbw-overview_full.png" alt="">
</picture>

The optimization is initialized with an initial set of superquadrics (”blocks”), a ground plane, and a sphere for the background. From here, the optimization can only reduce the number of blocks, not add additional ones.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bOon26Zdqpc?playlist=bOon26Zdqpc&loop=1&hd=1&rel=0&autoplay=1

A key difference to other differentiable renderers is the addition of transparency handling. Each mesh has an opacity associated with it that is optimized. When the opacity becomes lower than a threshold the mesh is discarded in the visualization. This allows to optimize the number of meshes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d6LkS63eHXo?playlist=d6LkS63eHXo&loop=1&hd=1&rel=0&autoplay=1

> To stabilize the optimization and avoid local minima, a 3-stage optimization is employed: (1) the texture resolution is reduced by a factor of 8; (2) the full resolution texture is optimized; (3) transparency-based optimization is deactivated, only optimizing the opaque meshes from here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stabilize the optimization and avoid local minima, a 3-stage optimization is employed:
1. the texture resolution is reduced by a factor of 8
2. the full resolution texture is optimized
3. transparency-based optimization is deactivated, only optimizing the opaque meshes from here.
```
